So one of the other things that's
cool about Cypress is that at
the end of the day, everything that
you're doing is just JavaScript, right.
And so though describing it our methods,
you've got the chains,
you've got the methods for
assertion, so on and so forth.
So for instance, if we have.
We wanna generate a lot of tests and
really kind of get our
code coverage very high.
One of things we can do is,
like use the JavaScript programming
language to generate our tests, right.
So if we wanted to kind of test out
all the different permutations of each
restaurant that you could pick.
We could just iterate
over that array right,
we could find all the checkboxes based
on an array go check each one on and
off and make sure it does the thing
that we think it's going to do.
We could have all
the different ratings and
adjust the input field to make sure
the ones we expect on the page are there.
And that seems silly, but actually for
things like server side rendering,
at first, you could actually find
a bug where if someone starts
moving stuff before JavaScript loads,
right.
Or if they have JavaScript turned off,
right, or something along those lines,
it won't actually behave
the way you think.
Right, and so you've got to figure out
do you want to show those things after
the JavaScript loads.
Like what is your progressive
enhancement like, strategy around this.
So like, there are different things
that actually like some of these
things are useful because like I see
that as somebody who found a bug in
their fake app preparing for
this workshop, right.
So there are definitely situations
where this kind of behooves us.
So what we wanna do is we
basically we have these values and
I'll do one or two and I'll give you
about five minutes to try one as well.
Is, basically use a programming
construct to see how that kind of
manifests itself in the actual cypress
tool once we go about using it.
So we've got properties,
we've got the restaurant filter and
we've got the rating slider we
know how to manipulate selects.
We know how to manipulate range sliders.
We know how to manipulate checkboxes.
So it doesn't really matter which
one I do wish when I leave to y'all.
I think I'm gonna go with the checkboxes
because it's a little bit trickier because
there's just more of them and you've
got to like interpolate the selector.
And I'm just feeling like somewhat
extra generous right now.
So I will go ahead and do that one.
Now, let's go over into the tool.
And we'll go back and
we'll pick a secret menu spec.
Or that fire up instead, so we've got
yeah show name for the actual checkboxes.
We're using IDs in this case.
So we can grab any of those, and so
what we could do is since we have all
the different properties here,
we can basically just say.
For cars properties,
right just use a regular and
you want to use a radar for each go for.
It's just JavaScript.
You do what you want.
So we'll go through each one of those.
And we'll basically say,
it should have a column for.
Property.
All right, I'll just change
that to a template string.
And so now as we go through,
I can say in the DOM.
There's a name column or
where to order column,
each different property
dash column has an ID.
And so I can start by just verifying
that all those exist, and so
I could say.
Property column.
And what you'll notice is that I have
taken some of the tedium of making
all of those by hand, hope we
are getting yelled at is made the test.
We can see where I made the mistake.
I'm pretty sure I didn't put the # for
the ID.
Right, so it's going through.
And like yet we've generated a test for
each one of those columns, right ,that
they exist on the page, and we have
everything that we think we should have.
Right, let's say you have
an API theoretically,
you could take that object and
iterate over the keys or
object to make sure that all rendered on
the page, especially as you're pulling in.
Data from other places you could take,
for a lot of stuff.
We're doing it to portal,
I've got protobuf definitions, right.
And so I generally know the structure
of the data that I'm getting
back from the API.
So I can go ahead and then verify that.
Like if I'm iterating through all
the pieces, everything's on the page, or
something went wrong or the API change.
Some of these are.
We do seek to a lot of times test.
There's a test wide mock out and
stub out all of my network requests those
are useful for
is my UI doing the thing I wanted to do.
I also have some tests that
are like hitting existing things so
just to make sure that things
change I'm aware of them.
That's an option as well,
I think our focus is going to
just be in our zone of control.
Which is our UI and make sure that if
it gets back the network requests,
we're expecting that it does
the thing that we meant to do.
But that's an option as well.
So we can go basically just make
sure that each one of those exists.
Now, if we click the appropriate
input field then we
should make sure it's not
on the page right, so it.
Should hide column if unchecked.
And here we'll go ahead and
we will find that particular input field.
We'll say, what was it again, was it?
Pretty sure it was show and
then the property name, cool, show.
Property, right and
we will check it, sweet.
We can also click it to write,
and then we wanna make sure that the given
column should be hidden in this case.
So we'll grab that.
Should be hidden.
And now we'll go through and
you can see that it's iterating
through all of our tests.
It's clearly not working
on that one percent,
which is probably gonna be
all of them in this case.
So looking for
that property column should be hidden.
So the big question is,
Maybe not on the checkbox,
go ahead and click it in this case.
It might be the thing where
I had the wrong element.
But in this case now,
they're all passing when I click on it.
We go through each one.
We should probably name
the property in here.
We should hide the,
Property column if unchecked.
And so yeah,
with honestly two tests we're now
checking every single situation, right.
And if one of them fails for
some reason, right.
Now, these are all roughly the same code
path but you could theoretically have
a bunch of different options and
stuff along those lines.
The major point is that anything
that you can do in JavaScript
you have here as well.